#summary Using the Kerberos Setup Validation Utility

== Introduction ==

Diagnostics utility to help identify kerberos-related configuration/setup and serving issues for the Google Search Appliance (GSA).

It is assumed the GSA Admin ran through the kerberos IWA setup for the GSA (i.e, created an account, created a DNS name, ran ktpass)
    
== Details ==
System Requirements:
 * 32-bit Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7
 * MIT Kerberos Client (http://web.mit.edu/Kerberos/dist/index.html) installed at (c:\program files\  such that  klist exists at: c:\program files\mit\kerberos\bin\klist.exe)

== Download ==
source:
http://code.google.com/p/gsa-admin-toolkit/source/browse/trunk/gsa_win_utility.hta

download:
http://gsa-admin-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gsa_win_utility.hta

== Usage ==
 * Download the gsa_win_toolkit.hta and save it to the desktop with the extension .hta.  The users account running the script does not have to be an admin.  
 * Right click on the file, select 'Properties'.  If the security setting blocks execution, select "Unblock".  Depending on your desktop system security, you may not have to do this step.
 * On launch, enter the following
   # Fully qualified DNS A-Name of the GSA (eg gsa.yourdomain.com)
   # User account for the GSA in active directory associated with the keytab.  (omit the domain information. eg: just gsauser not DOMAIN\gsauser or gsauser@DOMAIN)
   # Select the latest keytab
 *  The utility will run through about 20+ individual tests comparing the keytab/DNS/AD entry, etc.  Output in green is a pass, in red is an error that the tool detected in the confiuration.

==Error Messages ==  
 *  On Launch, if you see "Safety settings on this computer prohibit a data source on another domain" 
  Open Internet Explorer <br/>
  Go to Tools -> Internet Options<br/>
  Select the [Security] tab <br/>
  Select [Internet] from the list of web content zone <br/>
  Click [Custom Level] <br/>
  Enable [Access data sources across domains] <br/>
  Click all [OK] buttons to save and close all settings related pages <br/>
  Try running the diagnostic tool again <br/>


== References ==

http://code.google.com/apis/searchappliance/documentation/60/secure_search/secure_search_crwlsrv.html#kerberos_keytab

http://web.mit.edu/Kerberos/dist/index.html

http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee156506.aspx